---
layout: default
title: 2.0 Guide
parent: Guides
grand_parent: Lorerim
nav_order: 1
---

## Before You Start

- The **40GB Pagefile IS MANDATORY**.
- AMD users, make sure to **disable the DLAA mod**.
- Do not press "unlock" when launching the game.
- LoreRim has ultrawide and controller support, as well as optional gameplay mods in their corresponding sections in MO2.

## Keybinds & Customization

- All keybinds are shown when pressing `F11` by default.
- Most keybinds are changed via the corresponding mod's MCM menu (Smoothcam, True Directional Movement, One Click Power Attack).
- Dual block is changed in `LoreRim\mods\Dual Wield Parrying SKSE\SKSE\Plugins\DualWieldParryingSKSE.ini`.
- The difficulty slider does nothing in Requiem. Instead, you can modify damage dealt/received in the Requiem MCM. If you are a new Requiem player but want to keep it fair, I recommend setting both to 50%.

## Core Gameplay Tips

- Your stamina bar is your second health bar. At low stamina, you deal much less and take much more damage, can't block effectively, and are slower. If you want to mitigate these effects, consider enabling the optional Requiem Lite mod.
- Requiem is about progression. You won't be able to fight everything at level 1, or even level 10. You'll get there eventually, and the satisfaction of your journey is what makes it special. Check out the Requiem guide: [https://lorerim.netlify.app/blog/requiem-guide](https://lorerim.netlify.app/blog/requiem-guide)
- Heavy Armor will drain stamina without perks invested in it. Early game, you should also drink stamina regen soups and stews. Consider also taking the Lady Stone (best for beginners).
- Standing stones are locked to groups (you can only swap within the group). The Serpent Stone is its own group.
- Starting at level 2, you get class perk points every 5 levels. This will help you a lot.
- Archers hurt early on. In Requiem, archers have limited arrows, and chest protection (especially heavy chest pieces) gives ranged resistance. You can either bait their arrows until they run out, block them with a shield, or attempt to tank them.
- Speaking of archers hurting, it might be a good idea to keep a ranged weapon to take out those pesky mages early on until you get some magical resist.
- Enemies have resistances and weaknesses. Usually, they are logical, such as snowy animals resisting frost or mudcrabs with their hard shells resisting slash damage.
- Smithing requires books to invest perks into. The first book is bought from smiths.
- If you have survival mode enabled, you need to sleep to level up. When you level, you are given points to raise skills with.
- Armor levels are high in Requiem, but armor penetration exists. Each point is a 1% armor reduction. Enemies have it too, so it never hurts to overcap armor.

## Alternate Start

A new feature of 2.0 is the Alternate Start - Live Another Life mod, which allows the player to avoid the Helgen intro we've seen for over a decade and start elsewhere.

- I **HIGHLY** recommend avoiding starts related to joining factions. They can bug out the game in unforeseen ways.
- You get 50 tokens at the start to spend on gear. If you choose this system, all your default items will be removed.
- If you choose owning a home at the start, don't forget the key!

## Early Game Strats

- There is a tome in Farengar's chamber that allows you to read all books in a short radius. Use it to get some early levels.
- The small bandit camp near Whiterun is a perfect spot to get some early items and gold. The caravan note can be traded to the Khajiit caravans for around 2,000 septims.
- Jenassa is a great starting follower. It will be a good investment for those septims.
- The Missives board provides a good early way to make both money and gain XP. Also, make sure to pick up bounties.

## LoreRim-Specific Gameplay Tweaks & Perk Locked Mechanics

- You can dodge by default at level 1, but the Dodge perk in Evasion unlocks an actually good dodge as well as the ability to dodge and attack at the same time in third person.
- The Evasion tree also has the archery ability to perform dodge shots with the bow with the Dexterity perk.
- The Archery tree also gives the ability to perform power shots with the "Power Shot" perk.
- The One Handed tree under the dual wield branch gives the ability to wield a secondary dagger when using a bow under the "Storm of Steel" perk.
- The secondary dagger **MUST** be crafted (it isn't a regular dagger). Also, this is the **ONLY** feature of Rapid Bow Combo in LoreRim.
- LoreRim has a 4 stances system, you can alternate with `F1-F4`. The default stance provides no bonuses. High stance gives +power attack +damage taken. Medium stance gives +armor penetration -damage dealt. Low stance gives +poise damage -Health/Stamina/Magicka regen.
